Object oriented programming
1. Abstraction  :-  1) Hiding internal detail and showing only the relavant part 
                      increased security , reduces complexity , avoids code duplication .

2. Encapsulation :- 1) Single entity wrapping , every java class is an example of Encapsulation , because we write everything within the 
                    class only that binds variables and methods together and hides their complexity from other classes.
                    2) If the field is declared private in the class then it cannot be accessed by anyone from o
                    outside the class and hides field within the class. Therefore, it is also called data hiding. Encapsulation = Data Hiding + Abstraction
                    3)Getter and setter methods are used to read and write the private members .
                    4) ex: gmail , email , bank balance .

3. Inheritance :-   1) Inheriting the properties and behaviour of parent class .
                    2) Specialization :- modifying and changing some thing in the existing thing and makikng something new .

4. Polymorphism :-  1) Generalization :- something that can be addressed by general term and refered to a set of things by one name . ex students , cars .
                    2) Polymorphism is a concept in which we can execute a single operation in different ways.
5. Object       :-  1) A object is defined in terms of its properties and behaviour. 
                    It is a basic unit of Object-Oriented Programming and represents real-life entities. A typical Java program creates many objects, which as you know, interact by invoking methods. An object consists of : 
                    State: It is represented by attributes of an object. It also reflects the properties of an object.
                    Behavior: It is represented by the methods of an object. It also reflects the response of an object with other objects.
                    Identity: It gives a unique name to an object and enables one object to interact with other objects.

6. Class        :-  1. Class is a set of object which shares common characteristics/ behavior and common properties/ attributes.
                    2. Class is not a real world entity. It is just a template or blueprint or prototype from which objects are created.
                    3. Class does not occupy memory.
                    4. Class is a group of variables of different data types and group of methods.
                    5. A class is a user-defined blueprint or prototype from which objects are created. It represents the set of properties
                       or methods that are common to all objects of one type. In general, class declarations can include these components, in order: 
                            A class in java can contain:
                            • data member
                            • method
                            • constructor
                            • nested class and 
                            • interface    
7. Types of properties :- 1. Read and writable property - getter and setter methods           
                          2. Read - only read method
                          3. write   - only writable
8. constructor :-         1. initialized when object is created . does not have return type .
                          2. initialize the instance variable of the Class
                          3. We use constructors to initialize the object with the default or initial state.
                          4. Types:- default , parameterized .
                           -  The default values for primitives may not be what are you looking for.
                           -  Another reason to use constructor is that it informs about dependencies. 
                           -  using the constructor, we can request the user of that class for required dependencies.
                           -  We can find out what it needs in order to use this class, just by looking at the constructor.
9. Inheritance :-         1. Generalization - achieved using interfaces ex: smartphones - iphone , samsung , vivo which derives from smartphone features . bottom-up 
                          2. Specialization - achieved using Inheritance ex: Iphonex -> Iphone xs as it is extented and improvised . top-down 
                          3. process of acquiring the features of an existing class into new class. 
                          4. eveything from parent class is available in inheriting class but not accessible .
                          5. constructors of top class are always executed first 
10. this  :-     1. this is a reference to current object .
                          2. to avoid name conflicts . 
                          3. super is a refernce to a super class . 
                          4.to refer instance variable of current class
                          5.to invoke or initiate current class constructor
                          6.can be passed as an argument in the method call
                          7.can be passed as argument in the constructor call
                          8.can be used to return the current class instance
11. super keyword:-       1. super is a reserved keyword in java i.e, we can’t use it as an identifier.
                          2. super is used to refer super-class’s instance as well as static members.
                          3. super is also used to invoke super-class’s method or constructor.
                          4. super keyword in java programming language refers to the superclass of the class where the super keyword is currently being used.
                          5. The most common use of super keyword is that it eliminates the confusion between the superclasses and subclasses that have methods with same name.
                          6. super can be used in various contexts as given below:
                          it can be used to refer immediate parent class instance variable
                          it can be used to refer immediate parent class method
                          it can be used to refer immediate parent class constructor.
12. Method overriding:-   1. redifining a method of superclass in subclass . 

